One of the main purposes of using JDBC is to be able to fetch any data from the database.

For that, we should track these steps:

1. We need to import the package which helps us to work with SQL, and this is "java.sql.*".


2. Then we need to load and register the driver. We just need to use "forName()" method to load and register the driver and for MySql, the driver we need is that:
"com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver".
So, we write this for loading the driver:

Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");


3. The next step is setting the connection. For that, we use Connection interface and the method of DriverManagement class:
Connection con = DriverManagement.getConnection(url, userName, password);

Note that, here url, user name and password should be String type.


4. Now we need to create a statement. In Java, we need Statement interface and the method of Connection interface. (The method of a class which implements Connection interface).

Statement st = con.createStatement();


5. In this step we need to execute query (send the query to SQL). There is a specific method of Statement interface which helps us. (The method of a class which implements Statement interface).

Moreover, we need to keep data from the executed query and we use a specific data type for that which is "ResultSet". It is also an interface.

ResultSet rs = st.executeQuery();

By default, the pointer of the result set object starts from the place before the first row. (We use this pointer to traverse the rows). So at least once we should use its traversing method which is next() method.

If we imagine, according to our query only one String comes as output we can use getString(column_name) method of rs interface to get it. If that is integer value, we use getInt() and so on.

If we want to traverse all the rows from ResultSet and process them (such us print them), we use while loop.
As a condition, it uses next() method. 

This method has two main properties:
    1. To check whether there is next row or not. If yes, it returns true, otherwise false.
    2. If there is another row after the current one, it goes to the next one.

So we can set a while loop like that:
while(rs.next()){}

In the block of the loop we can get the columns of the current rows and process with them.


6. After the process, we need to close these:
ResultSet object, Statement object and Connection object:
    rs.close();
    st.close();
    con.close();
----------------------------------

I have created an example file and put it as the next file.

For this file, there is database called myDB and we work on students table. In this table, there is two columns: id(INT), name(VARCHAR(20)).

In Java we want to get the information of each student and print them. As a query we just use a simple code:
"SELECT * FROM students".