#servlet #jsp

**JSP (Java Server Pages)** is a technology provided by Java to create dynamic web pages. It allows developers to embed Java code directly into HTML or XML pages to generate dynamic content, making it ideal for web applications.

Its purpose is quite similar to Servlet, however there are some differences and developers use them together, we will learn its reasons in the next chapters. 

Let's show an example in which case JSP might be useful.

>[!INFO] Servlet vs JSP
>Imagine we have a servlet where the sum of input numbers are found and printed. Everything will be ok, until we want to do some customizations on the result page. Such us, if we want to make the page in different color (exemple green), we need to write hmtl code inside **out.print()** method. Here we need to write each html line, we should use this method multiple times.

	@WebServlet("/add")
	public class AddServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void doPost(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("secondNumber"));
			int result = firstNum + secondNum;
			
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			
			pw.println("<html><body bgcolor='green'>");
			// Result page will be green.
			pw.println("Result: " + result);
			pw.print("</body></html>");
		}
	}

If we want to do more customization on the page, this will more difficult, so mostly that is not useful for java developers. In this case, we use JSP. So in JSP, we can use html file format, so these customizations will become easier.

----
Let's learn how to do this process using jsp file. First we should create .jsp file in /webapp part.
When we create it, automatically some writings will appear, we just need to write our code in body part. Here to explain the compiler the code we write is java, we use **<% %>** tags:

	<%@ page language="java" contentType="text/html; charset=UTF-8"
	pageEncoding="UTF-8"%
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
	<head>
	<meta charset="UTF-8">
	<title>Insert title here</title>
	</head>
	<body bgcolor="green">
		<%
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(request.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(request.getParameter("secondNumber"));
			int result = firstNum + secondNum;
			out.println("Result: " + result);
		%>
	</body>
	</html>

Here **request** is implicit variable which represents **req** in Servlet. Moreover, **PrintWriter** object is also created behind the sceen and its object name is **out**.

To show index.html which jsp should be used, we write form part like that:

	<form action="add.jsp" method="post">

All other things are the same with the servlet creating. More info: [[04.Creating Servlet|Creating Servlet]]

We should also know that in the behind  of the scene, all jsp files are converted to servlet file and our programs servlets.