#jsp #tags

In the previous lesson, we have learned about some tags: [[02.Tags in JSP|Tags in JSP]]
One of this tag is Directive Tag, and it has some version:

	@page
	@include
	@taglib

While using Directive Tag, we use these versions of it. Let's learn what is the difference among them.

### 1. @page

This tag is used to define page-level settings, such us the content type, buffer size or session management for JSP. It provides configuration for the entire JSP page. We also import some packages here using **import** statement, and if we would like to import multiple, we should use comma among  them.

*Example:*

	<%@ page language="java" contentType="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1" %>

- `language="java"`: Specifies the programming language (Java).
- `contentType="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1"`: Sets the content type and character encoding for the page.


### 2. @include

This tag is used to include the content of another file (usually a static file) at the time thet JSP page is translated (compiled). It is a static inclusion, meaning the content is included att compile time, not runtime.

*Example:*

	<%@ include file="header.jsp" %>

- This includes the content of `header.jsp` into the current JSP page during page compilation.


### 3. @taglib

This tag is used to import  custom tag libraries into the JSP page. This allows us to use custom tags defined in a specific library.

*Example:*

	<%@ taglib uri="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/core" prefix="c" %>

- `uri`: The URI that identifies the tag library.
- `prefix`: The prefix used to reference tags from the tag library in the JSP file (in this case, `c`).

We can then use the custom tag in your page like this:

	<c:forEach var="item" items="${list}">
	    ${item}
	</c:forEach>
