In JSP, implicit objects are predefined objects that the JSP engine automatically makes available to every page. These objects provide useful information about the current HTTP requests, session, application and more without  needing to explicitly declare them.

Here is a list of some implicit objects:

### request

- Represents an object of **HttpServletRequest** class 
- Request send by client(browser) to the server.
- Contains information such us form data, query parameters, and request headers.
- Example:	`request.getParameter("username");`

### response

- Represents an object of **HttpServletResponse** class.
- Respond which server sends back to the server.
- Used to set response headers and content.
- Example: `response.setContentType("text/html");`

### out

- Represents an object of **PrintWriter**.
- Used to send data (usually HTML) to the client.
- We use it  to output text to the browser.
- Example: `out.print("Hello World");`

### session

- Represents an object of **HttpSession** class.
- Current session between the client and the server.
- Used to store user-specific information accross multiple requests.
- Example: `session.setAttribute("name", "Ravan");`

### application

- Represents an object of **ServletContext** class.
- For entire web application
- Sharing data among all users and all sessions in the application.
- Example: `application.setAttribute("appName", "MyApp");`

### config

- Represents an object of **ServletConfig** class.
- For the current servlet.
- Contains initializations just for current servlet.
- Example: `String param = config.getInitParameter("maxUsers");`

### pageContext

- Represents an object of **PageContext** class.
- Provides access to all the other implicit objects.
- Imagine, it like declearing variable.
- Example: `pageContext.setAttribute("myVar", "value");`

