In Java, a record is a special kind of class introduced in Java 14 (as a preview feature) and officially in Java 16. It is designed to be a concise, immutable data carrier for holding data without needing boilerplate code like constructors, getters, toString, equals, and hashCode methods. Records are ideal when you need a class primarily to hold values.

In record classes, all fields are final (constant) default, so we cannot change after creating them.

Moreover, there are automatic methods like toString, equals, hashCode methods and also getters and setters.

Record classes cannot extend another class and other classes cannot extend record class.

---------------------------------------------

Record classes are used mostly for data transferring between layers of an application and for holding simple configurations or settings objects that can be hold as constant values.

---------------------------------------------

We can create some new constructors, however we cannot add new fields, and the number of parameters of the constructors should be at least one:

	> public record Example (String name, int age){
	    public Example(String name){
	        this(name, 0);
	    }
	
	    public Example(int age){
	        this("", age);
		}
	}

---------------------------------------------

If we want to limit the parameters from primary constructor, we can write something like that:


	> public record Person(String name, int age) {
	      public Person {
	         if (age < 0) {
	             throw new IllegalArgumentException("Age cannot be negative");
	         }
	     }
	   }  


That is called compact constructor.

