#xml #html #servlet

To be able to create a new servlet, we will use at least three files:

- **xml file** - To initialize and introduce our servlets to the program, we will use it. For each servlet we will add specific commands to the file.
- **index.html** - In this file, we will write (mostly simple) html code and take a user's input and do other operations.
- **servlet file** - This will be .java file(class) and here we will write a code to get information (if exists) from users, do specific operations on them and send them to the server.

---
###### XML file configuration

Imagine, we have created a servlet class named **MultiplicationServlet**. In xml file, we have to introduce this class. For each class, we need to add two tags (<>).

- The first tag is **/<servlet/>**. In this tag, we will have two subtags.
	- One will be special name which is used in index.html file to define which servlet will be used. It is **\<servlet-name>**\. Here we give a name about our servlet's job and it will be used in index.html to know the servlet. Let's give it a name: *multiplication*.
	- Another one will be **\<servlet-class>**\. Here we will write the path of the servlet class. In our case, itt will be: *com.mr_ravan.MultiplicationServlet*.
- The second tag is **\<servlet-mapping>**\. In this tag, we have also two subtags:
	- The first subtag is **\<servlet-name\>**. Here we will again write the name (the same with **/<servlet\>** tag). It is *multiplication* in our sample.
	- The second subtag is **\<url-pattern\>**.  It defines the URL pattern that will trigger the mapped servlet. (It will be shown in URL pattern).

xml code:
	 <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

	<web-app xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee" xsi:schemaLocation="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee/web-app_6_0.xsd" id="WebApp_ID" version="6.0">
	
		<servlet>
			<servlet-name>multiplication</servlet-name>
			<servlet-class>com.mr_ravan.MultiplicationServlet</servlet-class>
		</servlet>
		
		<servlet-mapping>
			<servlet-name>multiplication</servlet-name>
			<url-pattern>/multiplication</url-pattern>
		</servlet-mapping>
		
	</web-app>

If we have multiple servlets, we should create these tags for each of them seperately.

----
###### index.html configuration 

We just need to create a simple .html file for a webpage. Here, in \<body\> part, we should have \<form\>.
Inside this form, we should write the name we defined for servlet. We assumed it  as "multiplication".
So we need to write it like:

	<form action="multiplication">
If we take inputs, we should keep in mind  their variable names, because to fetch and use them in java file, we need them.

index.html file:

	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
		<body>
			<form action="multiplication">
				Enter 1st number: <input type="text" name="firstNumber"><br>
				Enter 2nd number: <input type="text" name="secondNumber"><br>
				<input type="submit">
			</form>
		</body>
	</html>

----
###### Servlet class configuration

It is better for a servlet class to name them the job of the servlet + *Servlet* like 
*MultiplicationServlet*.

Our servlet class should extend **HttpServlet** class and the method we will use is **service(...)**.
This will be public void and should take two parameters:

	public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res){...}

In the class, first we we will fetch the inputs from the page.
To do that, we need to use **req.getParameter("variableName")** method. For variable names, we will use ones in index.html file. Then we need to declare variables and assign inputs to them. BTW, here the input type is always string, if we want to take it as an integer(to do type casting), we should use **Integer.parseInt(...)**, if it is double (or other) we will use the method corresponding to them. If it is already string, we do need to do any type casting process.

Then we should do proper operations on the inputs. In our example, it is just multiplicating them:

	int result = firstNumber + secondNumber;

After all, we want to print the result on the web screen. To do that, we should use **PrintWriter** class. We should create its object using one of the class parameters:

	PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
	pw.println("Result: " + result);

And in the webpage, the result will be printed.
(Using **PrintWriter** needs IOException decleration).

Java class:

	package com.mr_ravan;

	import java.io.IOException;
	import java.io.PrintWriter;
	
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class MultiplicationServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("secondNumber"));
			
			int result = firstNum * secondNum;
			
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			
			pw.println("Result: " + result);
		}
	}


