#servlet 
##### ServletConfig

ServletConfig is a specific feature which allows to each servlet to create a constant variable in xml file. It can be used only in this servlet. It provides configuration information to a specific servlet.

It should be created in each servlet's <\servlet>\ tags.
I will use an example where there are two variables for one servlet:

	<servlet>
		<servlet-name>multiplication</servlet-name>
		<servlet-class>com.mr_ravan.MultiplicationServlet</servlet-class>
		
		<init-param>
			<param-name>name</param-name>
			<param-value>Mr_Ravan</param-value>
		</init-param>
		
		<init-param>	
			<param-name>OS</param-name>	
			<param-value>Linux</param-value>
		</init-param>
	</servlet>

As you can see, for each variable, there are tags, the first is for its variable name and the second one is for its value.

To use these variables in Servlet class, we need to have something like that:

	public class MultiplicationServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void doPost(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
			ServletConfig cg = getServletConfig();
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			pw.println(cg.getInitParameter("name") + " is using " + cg.getInitParameter("OS"));
		}
	}

----
##### ServletContext

That is similar to ServletConfig, but ServletContext is a variable type which is global to each servlet in the webpage. It is not created in any servlet tag in xml, for this special tag is used. I have created two ServletContext as an example:

	<context-param>
		<param-name>Language</param-name>
		<param-value>Java</param-value>
	</context-param>

	<context-param>
		<param-name>Country</param-name>
		<param-value>Azerbaijan</param-value>
	</context-param>
	

Here, **context-param** is a tag to create ServletContext and **param-name** is for a variable name and **param-value** is for its value. 

To use these variables in Servlet class:

	public class MultiplicationServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void doPost(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
			ServletContext ct = getServletContext();
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			pw.println("Language is " + ct.getInitParameter("Language"));
			pw.print("Country is " + ct.getInitParameter("Country"));
		}
	}
