Aggregate functions in SQL are used to perform calculations on a set of values and return a single result. These functions are especially useful when you need to summarize, group, or analyze data from multiple rows in a database.

There are some popular aggregate functions which we need to know:

1) COUNT(*)
It helps us to print the count of rows:
"SELECT COUNT(*) FROM employees;"


2) SUM(): Adds up the values in a numeric column. It's typically used to calculate totals.
"SELECT SUM(salary) FROM employees;"


3) AVG(): Calculates the average value of a numeric column. It's often used to find the mean of a set of values, such as the average age of employees.
"SELECT AVG(salary) FROM employees;"


4) MAX(): Returns the maximum value in a column. It's useful for finding the highest value in a set, such as the maximum price or highest score.
"SELECT MAX(salary) FROM employees;"


5) MIN(): Returns the minimum value in a column. It's often used to find the lowest value in a dataset, such as the minimum order amount or the lowest grade.
"SELECT MIN(salary) FROM employees;"


-------------------------------------------


In SQL, an alias is used to give a temporary name to a table or a column for the duration of a query. This can make your queries more readable and simplify complex expressions.

Types of Aliases:

-Column Alias: Used to give a temporary name to a column in the result set:

    "SELECT column_name AS alias_name FROM table_name;"

    "SELECT first_name AS "Employee Name" FROM employees;"



-Table Alias: Used to give a temporary name to a table in the query, often to simplify the query or make it shorter, especially when dealing with joins:

    "SELECT first_name AS "Employee Name" FROM employees;"

    "SELECT e.first_name, e.last_name FROM employees AS e;"
