#oop 

1) What is OOP?

Answer:
OOP is a programming methodology based on the representation of a software product as a collection of objects, each of which is an instance of a particular class. Object takes the main place in this software design approach. Object can be described as data structure (some state) plus some behavior to modify and interact with this data (state). OOP uses the interaction of objects as its basic elements.

2) What is an object?

Answer:
An object is a named model of a real entity that has specific property values and manifests its behavior. Object has a set of data (fields and properties of an object) taht is physically located in the computer's memory. Also, object has methods that have access to the data (fields and properties). An object is a concrete instance of a class.

3) NAME THE BASIC PRINCIPLES OF OOP.

Answer:
It is generally accepted that object-oriented programming is based on 4 basic principles (there were only 3 before). These principles are:

1.(Abstraction)
2. Encapsulation
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism

4) What is inheritance?

Answer:
Inheritance is the process by which you can describe one type based on the other type. Also, during the inheritance, one object can acquire the properties of another object (inheritance of all the properties of one object by another) and add features characteristic only of himself.

5) WHAT IS POLYMORPHISM? WHAT MANIFESTATIONS OF POLYMORPHISM IN JAVA DO YOU KNOW?

Answer: 
Polymorphism (from the Greek polymorphos) is a property that allows the same name to be used to solve two or more similar but technically different tasks. The goal of polymorphism, as applied to object-oriented programming, is to use a single name to define common actions for a class. The execution of each specific action will be determined by the data type.

More generally, the concept of polymorphism is the idea of ​​"one interface, many methods". This means that you can create a common interface for a group of similar actions.

For example, you have an acceleration pedal on an electric car and on a car with a gasoline engine. In both cases, pressing the acceleration pedal would bring us the same result - the car will go faster. But the way how exactly acceleration will be implemented in electric and non-electric cars - will be different because of the different car construction.

6) What is Encapsulation:





