grep -> It is used to search for specific patterns or text within files. It’s a powerful tool for filtering text based on a search string or regular expression, making it incredibly useful for log analysis, searching through code, or text processing.

Syntax:
grep [options] <pattern> <file(s)>

<pattern>: The string or regular expression you want to search for.
<file(s)>: The file(s) in which to search.

So it searchs the lines in which <pattern> exists, and print whole the lines.

Imagine we have:
grep "hello" file.txt 

It searches all the file and in each time when "hello" has found the whole line will be printed.

There are some special patterns for grep command:

-'^SEARCHED_THING' -> here the lines which starts with this word will be printed.

-'SEARCHED_THING$' -> here the lines which ends with this word will be printed.

-grep 'r..f' red.txt -> It searchs the lines and print them if they start with 'r' and finish with 'f' and between these there should be the same number of characters with the points. 

-grep '[0-9]' -> It searches all the file and if the number is found in any line, the whole line will be printed.

-grep '[^0-9]' -> It searches all the lines, if in any line there is at least one nonnumber character, the whole line will be printed. 

-grep '[r.f]' -> It searches the lines and print them if they start with 'r' and finish with 'f'. The number characters between them does not matter.

-grep 're*d' -> It searches the lines, and print them, if there is a partition which start with r and finish with d, and between them there is zero or more 'e'.

If we want to find the partition with at least one 'e' between other characters, we can write something like that: 'ree*d'. Now we are sure, it will print the lines where the partition starts with 'r' and finishes with 'd' and between them there is at least one 'e'.

-grep 'r[oe]*d' -> It will search and print the lines if there is a partition that starts with an r, followed by zero or more o or e characters, and then followed by a d.
Examples:
rod
red
roed
reeeed