#servlet 

### Servlet Filter Theory

Servlet Filter is a specific technology which helps us to interpret incoming requests and send outgoing responces. It allows us to behave properly with the request before it  reaches a servlet or JSP. They check the request according to its some features, and if it is acceptible, it is allowed to go to the servlet or JSP. 

It is possible to have multiple servlet filters in the road. Actually their job is similar to servlet, but they are not officially servlets, so they are not allowed to operate main tasks. They are just checkers and we can use them for multiple servlets, too.


#### Key Features of a Servlet Filter
- **Pre-Processing**: They can modify or validate the request before it reaches the servlet
- **Post-Processing**: They can be also used to modify or process the response before it is sent to the client.
- **Chaining**: Multiple filters can be chained together and they can be executed in a defined order.

#### Common Use Cases

1. *Authentication and Authorization*
2. *Logging and Auditing*
3. *Compression*
4. Request/Response Transformation*
5. *CORS Handling*


#### Main Methods
In the filters, default there are three methods:
1. *init*
2. *doFilter*
3. destroy
Main things happen in `doFilter(..)` method and we do most stuff here.

----

### How to implement Servlet Filter practically?

To be able to implement **Servlet Filter**, it is better to create a folder named **filters** inside *src/main/java* and create our filter files inside it. Now that, filter files are simply java classes. In addition, there is a specific choice for us to create a filter file. After creating filter file, we need to write our code in `doFilter(..)` method.

This method has three parameters:

1. **ServletRequest**: It is similar to **HttpServletRequest**, and we mostly convert it to this. Our inputs come from there and we can use **.getParameter(..)** method with it.
2. **ServletResponse**: It is similar to **HttpServletResponse** and we mostly convert it to this. Our outputs are sent using this. We can use its **.getWriter()** method.
3. **FilterChain**: This method helps us to link filters, if there is just one filter or the current filter is last filter, it is linked to the servlet.

One of the most important thing in Filter files, always their names in **@WebServlet** part should be the same with the servlet  where their reponses will go.

I have created a simple Fitler example. So there are three files:
1. *JSP file*: It helps us to get user's inputs (name, age). (It is similar to index.html)
2. *Filter file*: Filter file takes the age of the user and check it is valid or not. If yes, it sends link to the servlet, otherwise no.
3. *Servlet file*: It does proper things, if the request can be reached it.

---
**JSP file**:

	<%@ page language="java" contentType="text/html; charset=UTF-8"
	pageEncoding="UTF-8"%>
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	
	<html>
	<head>
	<meta charset="UTF-8">
	<title>Insert title here</title>
	</head>
		<body>
			<form action="../DemoServlet" method="POST">
				Enter your name: <input type="text" name="name"><br>
				Enter your age: <input type="text" name="age"><br>
				<input type="submit">
			</form>
		</body>
	</html>


**Filter file**:

	package filters;
	
	import jakarta.servlet.Filter;
	import jakarta.servlet.FilterChain;
	import jakarta.servlet.FilterConfig;
	import jakarta.servlet.ServletException;
	import jakarta.servlet.ServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.ServletResponse;
	import jakarta.servlet.annotation.WebFilter;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpFilter;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import java.io.IOException;
	
	
	@WebFilter("/DemoServlet")
	public class DemoFilter_1 extends HttpFilter implements Filter {
		public void destroy() {	}
		
		public void doFilter(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response, FilterChain chain) throws IOException, ServletException 
		{
			HttpServletRequest req = (HttpServletRequest) request;
			int age = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("age"));
			
			if (age > 0)
				chain.doFilter(request, response);
			else response.getWriter().print("No one can have age less than 0.");
		}
	
		public void init(FilterConfig fConfig) throws ServletException {}	
	}


**Servlet file**:

	package servlets;
	
	import java.io.IOException;
	import jakarta.servlet.annotation.WebServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	@WebServlet("/DemoServlet")
	public class DemoServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void doPost(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException 
		{
			res.getWriter().println("Hello " + req.getParameter("name"));
		}
	}


----

If we want to create multiple filters, the process is completely the same. In each filter, the specific part of the data can be checked and if everything is ok, using `chain.doFilter(request, response);` method, we can call the next filter. 
We can have a specific question now: 

*How to make the filters to be called sequentially?*

In default, the filters are called in lexicographical order. There is no direct way to make it. (*Actually exists, but in Spring*)
If we can set the class names properly(according to lexicographical order), the compiler would call them in the specific sequential we want.

