#servlet 
###### What is Servlet Dispatching?

Sometimes, we may want to run a servlet inside another servlet. That means we have two servlet classes and we call the second servlet (class) in the first servlet (class). This process is called **Servlet Dispatching**.

The first class (which sends information) is a servlet class whose servlet name is written in index file. So webpage actually calls only this servlet, and this servlet's class calls another servlet.

###### How to send information?

In Java, we have **RequestDispatcher** class to dispatch information from one servlet to another. We can send our information using a method of **HttpServletRequest** (a function parameter):

	req.setAttribute("num", result);
Here we send result variable to another servlet and call it *num*. We can also send multiple variables similar to that, like:

	req.setAttribute("var1", x1);
	req.setAttribute("var2", x2);
	req.setAttribute("var3", x3);
	...

Then we should determine the class (servlet) we send information to. To make that, we write:

	RequestDispatcher rd = req.getRequestDispatcher("second_servlet_url_pattern");
	rd.forward(req, res); 
	
Simply using **getRequestDispatcher** method, we determine the second servlet which will use the information produced in the current class. In the method, we should write the second servlet's url-pattern. 
**rd.forward(..)** method needs **ServletException** decleration.

First Servlet Class:

	package com.mr_ravan;

	import java.io.IOException;
	import java.io.PrintWriter;
	import jakarta.servlet.RequestDispatcher;
	import jakarta.servlet.ServletException;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class MultiplicationServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException, ServletException {
		
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("secondNumber"));
			int result = firstNum * secondNum;
			req.setAttribute("num", result);
			
			RequestDispatcher rd = req.getRequestDispatcher("/square"); 
			// here, we should write url-pattern of the second servlet
			
			rd.forward(req, res);
		
		}
	
	}

----

###### How to get information?

Now, let's talk about the second servlet which takes (fetches) the information from the first class and use it. 
Imagine, in the second servlet we take an input and print its square. So from the first servlet we have already sent the data, now we should get it:

	int num = ((int) req.getAttribute("num"));

After all, we can do any operation on that and print it in webpage.


Second Servlet Class:

	package com.mr_ravan;
	
	import java.io.IOException;
	import java.io.PrintWriter;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class SquareServlet extends HttpServlet {
		public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException{
			int num = ((int) req.getAttribute("num"))
			int squareOfNum = num * num;
			
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			pw.println("Square: " + squareOfNum);
		}
	}

To see how to create xml file and index.html, look at:

[[04.Creating Servlet|Creating Servlet]]

