#servlet 

##### Remembering servlet dispatching

We have already known about what is servlet dispatching and how it works. Briefly, in the index.html one servlet is called and in this servlet class another servlet is called using its url-pattern. In this case, the browser does not know that the second servlet is called during the process, because **HttpServletRequest** and **HttpServletResponse** methods are the same ones in both servlet. So in the first servlet, we called 	**rd.forward(req, res)**. The **(req, res)** from the first servlet go to the second one. That is why, the browser does not have any information that the second servlet works.

If both servlets are in the same website, there is no problem and it is ok. However, if the second servlet is from another website, it is good for browser to know about the second servlet's job.


##### How does it happen?

In the second case, the first servlet actually respond to the browser that it should call the second servlet and after browser knows about it, the second servlet is called by the browser itself. 


##### How to do it?

###### How to send data?
In the first servlet's class, we use **sendRedirect(...)** method. Inside this method, we should send our variables. We can do it like that:

	res.sendRedirect("square?num=" + result);

So, for the second servlet, I have send result variable with another name which is **num**. That is called **URL Rewriting**.

Full code:

	package com.mr_ravan;
	
	import java.io.IOException;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class MultiplicationServlet extends HttpServlet{
		public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException{
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("secondNumber"));
			int result = firstNum * secondNum;
			res.sendRedirect("square?num=" + result);
			// "square" - url-pattern of the second servlet without "/"
		}
	}

###### How to get data?
According to process, the data come from the browser itself, that is why, we need to take all variables similar in the first servlet, so we just need to use **getParameter(..)**.

	int num = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("num"));

Full code:

	package com.mr_ravan;
	
	import java.io.IOException;
	import java.io.PrintWriter;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;	
	import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class SquareServlet extends HttpServlet {
		public void service(HttpServletRequest req,
		HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException{
			int num = Integer.parseInt(req.getParameter("num"));
			int squareOfNum = num * num;
			
			PrintWriter pw = res.getWriter();
			pw.println("Square: " + squareOfNum);
		}	
	}