#servlet #jsp #jdbc #example_project

After learning that kind of stuff, let's create a simple webpage which is based on login part.

So, our purpose is that: In first, the  user should enter his name and password and if these are valid, he gets a privilage to enter the website. When he enters the website, he is linked to **Welcome** page and in this page there is a link for another page where videos are found. Moreover, in **Welcome** page there is a button for log out.


> [!abstract] My Purpose
>First, the  user should enter his name and password in login page and if these are valid, he gets a privilage to enter the website. When he enters the website, he is linked to **Welcome** page and in this page there is a link for another page where **videos** are found. Moreover, in **Welcome** page there is a button for log out.


> [!success] My Progress
> I have created a servlet and a jsp file for login. JSP file actually plays a role of **index.html** and we use it to get inputs from the users. In its servlet, we fetch the data (username and password), then check them. If they are valid, we let the user to enter the website, otherwise he is directed a login page again. 
> 
> If user entered a valid password and username, he is directed to **welcome** page. I have created a jsp file for **welcome** page. There is a link for a video page. Moreover, there is a button to log out and I have created a servlet for logout.
> 
> Moreover, we have a jsp file for video page where the videos are shown.
> 
> In each page the login is compulsory, so we cannot enter any part without logging in.


> [!warning] Title
> While working numerous pages in Servlet/JSP, there is an important thing which we should need to pay attention. So when we log out and then use **Back** button, it should not get us back, because we are already log out. However, if we do not prevent it, it will always can go back and that is dangerous for secure pages. 
> 
> **Why this happens?**
> Because for each page there is a cache (a kind of storage) and in this cacke there is some our information which is not deleted even after we log out. 
> 
> **What do we need to do?**
> We should need to clear a cache in each page. To do it, we can use these methods:
> 
> `response.setHeader("Cache-Control", "no-cache, no-store, must-revalidate");`
> `// for http 1.1`
> 
> `response.setHeader("Pragma", "no-cache");`
> `// for http 1.0`
> 
> `response.setHeader("Expires", "0");`
> `// for proxies`
> 
> Using these all is a good practise to handle all cases.



> [!example] YouTube Link
> If we want to use (paste) YouTube link in JSP or html file, instead of copying it, we can copy its **embed** version and paste it in the JSP/html file.


For the source code of the project:
[[login.jsp]]  
[[LoginServlet.java]]

[[welcome.jsp]]
[[videos.jsp]]
[[LogoutServlet.java]]


-----
To get more information about **creating servlet and jsp**, look at:
[[04.Creating Servlet|Creating Servlete]]
[[01.What is JSP?|What is JSP?]]


-----

### How to use JDBC in this webpage structure?


> [!success] SQL and JDBC usage
> While logging in process, we need to verify whether the login credentials are valid or not. To leverage that, we can store the login credentials in SQL and then when the user inputs them we can check them.
> 
> **How to do it?**
> To achieve this we just create a class where the login credentials (*user's inputs*) are checked. Then we can use this class in **LoginServlet** class.


