#servlet #jsp #tags

We already know that JSP is better version of servlet and servlets, actually, are converted to servlets by the program.

In **JSP**,  **tags** are special constructs enclosed in delimiters (`<%` and `%>` or similar), used to embed Java code or provide instructions to the JSP engine. They control how the page is processed on the server before sending the response to the client.

There are four main types of tags:

### 1.Scriplet Tag
- **Purpose**: Embeds Java code into the JSP page for execution.
- **Syntax**: `<% Java code %>`
- **Use case**: Inside this, we write the java code. We can write different logics or algorithms, initialize variables and print them.

### 2. Declaration Tag

- **Purpose**: Declares variables, methods, or functions that can be used across the JSP page.
- **Syntax**: `<%! declaration %>` like `<%! int i = 5; %>`
- Declarations are placed at the class level and shared across multiple requests to the same JSP. Imagine, in Servlet class, we create variables in class level not in any method.

### 3. Directive Tag
- **Purpose**: Provides instructions or directives to the JSP container, such as importing classes or specifying the page content type.
- **Syntax**: `<%@ directive attribute="value" %>` like `<%@page import = "java.util.*" %>`


### 4.Expression Tag
- **Purpose**: In HTML code part (not in scriplet tag part), if we want to print a class level variable, we should use it.
- **Syntax**: `<%= expression %>`


Example JSP file with all these tags:

	<%@ page language="java" contentType="text/html; charset=UTF-8"
	pageEncoding="UTF-8"%>
	<%@page import="java.util.*" %> <!-- Expression Tag -->
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
	<head>
	<meta charset="UTF-8">
	<title>Insert title here</title>
	</head>
	<body bgcolor="cyan">
		<h3>Hello world!</h3>
		<%! int i = 5; %> <!-- Declaration Tag -->
		
		<%
			int firstNum = Integer.parseInt(request.getParameter("firstNumber"));
			int secondNum = Integer.parseInt(request.getParameter("secondNumber"))
			int result = firstNum + secondNum;
			out.println("Result: " + result);
		%> <!-- Scriplet Tag -->
		
		<br><br>
		i variable is <%= i %> <!-- Expression Tag -->
	</body>
	</html>