These are two methods of HTTP request. There are some differences between these:

*GET:*

- Retrieves data from the server.	
- Data is appended to the URL as query parameters and visible in the address bar.	
- Limited by the maximum URL length supported by the browser/server.	
- Responses can be cached by browsers and intermediate systems.	
- Typically idempotent (does not change the state of the server).	
- Less secure as data is visible in the URL, making it susceptible to logging or sharing.	
- Fetching data like webpage content, images, or API information.	

*Post:*

- Sends data to the server (e.g., to create or update resources).
- Data is sent in the request body and not visible in the URL.
- Can send large amounts of data in the request body.
- Responses are generally not cached.
- Not idempotent (may modify the server state with each request).
- More secure as sensitive data (e.g., passwords) is sent in the body.
- Submitting forms, uploading files, or sending sensitive data.

--------------

Sometimes, we use POST to retrieve data.

##### Why Use POST for Retrieving Data?

- Sensitive or Complex Parameters:

	If the query contains sensitive data (e.g., private user info) or long/complex parameters that exceed URL length limits, POST can be used.


- Server-Specific API Design:

	Some APIs are designed to only use POST for all types of interactions, including data retrieval.


By the way, **get** is default method for HTTP. So in the previous lesson, although we do not specify any method name, the one was get.

To specify method name, we should change just one line in index.html:

	<form action="add" method="post">
Just it!


---------------------------------

Morover, while fetching data, we can set a restriction, so it would not let requests with **get** method. To do that, we just need to change the method name to **doPost**. It will just accept requests with **post** method.
There is also another method kind which is **doGet**, it blocks requests with other methods, accept just **get**.

**service** method accepts both.

	public void service(...){} // Work in both
	public void doGet(...){} // For only get
	public void doPost(...){} // For only post