In most websites and applications, to be able to reach our data, we should login beforehand and that is very crucial to preclude our data to be stolen by others. In this lecture, I will show basic login process, however this is just a page where you try to log in, it will not redirect you even after you do it successfully. The main thing is just  simulatiting the login process and as an example if the login is successfull, the user data will be send, otherwise error message.

Unfortunately, `mongoose` does not  offer specific method us to check user email and passwords, however we can create our custom method for that and `mongoose` allows us to do it. Let's create a method named `findByCredentials` for our specific schema (`userSchema`). So created methods are only specific to the schema.

```javascript
// The code should be written where schema is created and just after the creation of the schema.
userSchema.statics.findByCredentials = async (email, password) => {
    const user = await User.findOne({email});

    if (!user){
        throw new Error('Unable to login!');
    }

    const isMatch = await bcrypt.compare(password, user.password);

    if (!isMatch)
        throw new Error('Unable to login!');

    return user;
};
```
In this case, `static` helps us to create a specific method belongs to `userSchema`.

After that, we can just create **REST** method which uses this method.
In user route file, we write:
```javascript
router.post('/users/login', async (req, res) => {
    try {
        const user = await User.findByCredentials(req.body.email, req.body.password);

        res.send(user);
    } catch(e) {
        res.status(400).send(e);
    }
});
```

----
As additional information, we may want some information to be unique for the models. Likehood, we may want each user to have unique email. To be able to that, we need to specify it while creating schema. So we need to add `unique: true` for the field (like email) which we want to be unique.  
If the schema is already created without using `unique` keyword, to enable it, we need to drop all the documents in db and just after that for each new document, `unique` keyword will be used.