As you know for this section, we create a **task-manager** app to learn the section. Now it is time to create a relationships among the users and their tasks and no other users can read others tasks. 

#### How to hide tasks from others?
We have two choices: 
- We can create a specific property for the user schema which stores all tasks' id of the user and thus the user can read only these tasks.
- We can create a specific property for the task schema which stores its user's id for each task.
That is better to choose the second one. So our task schema will change to:
```javascript
const taskSchema = mongoose.Schema({
    description: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    },
    completed: {
        type: Boolean,
        default: false
    },
    owner: {
        type: mongoose.Schema.Types.ObjectId,
        required: true,
        ref: 'User'
    }
});
```
As you can see, we created a specific property for the task which holds owner's id. Using `ref`, we create a relationship for mongoose which helps us to find owner of the current task without needing boilerplate code. We can write something  like that:

```javascript
const myFunc = async () => {
    const userOfTask = await Task.findById('6791523f3eb0cc695b81ff59').populate('owner');
    
    console.log(userOfTask);
}

myFunc();
```

Ok, now, can we find all tasks of user with the code something like that? (Of course, we can do it manually, however do we have a mognoose shortcut for it?). The answer is yes, we have a shortcut from mongoose which can help us to shrink the code.
However, we do not store id values of tasks of user inside user schema, so we cannot do that directly. We need one additional step.
```javascript
// We should write it in the file where the user schema is located.
userSchema.virtual('tasks', {
    ref: 'Task',
    localField: '_id',
    foreignField: 'owner'
});
```
In this case, we can virtually save tasks in user, that is not actual saving, just explaining to server the process. As its name (`tasks` here), we can select any name which is appropriate. 
In `ref` part, we write the name of task model. In `foreignField` part we need to write the name for the virtual property. `localField` should be filled with the data which should virtually stored here.
```javascript
const myFunc = async () => {
    const tasksOfUser = await User.findById('679143ce1998908d013322ca').populate('owner');
    console.log(tasksOfUser);
}

myFunc();
```
